**********************************************
# Statistics for Data Science: The lighthouse Problem
**********************************************

## Description
This project contains the codes used for solving the lighthouse problem described in lighthouse.pdf and reproducing all the results and figures shown in the report.

## Installaion
To install this project, follow these steps:
1. Clone from the Gitlab Repository
```
git clone https://gitlab.developers.cam.ac.uk/phy/data-intensive-science-mphil/S2_Assessment/yz870.git
```
2. Create and activate new conda environment
```
cd yz870
conda env create -f environment.yml
conda activate cw_s2
```

## Usage
There 2 two main scripts, called main_part1.py and main_part2.py, containing solutions to questions i to v and solutions to questions vi to viii respectively. To run them on the command line, you need to specify the number of steps for MCMC simulations to run after --nsteps, e.g.
```
python main_part1.py --nsteps 10000
```
Results will be displayed after execution, and figures will be saved as .png files in the figures folder. The helpers package in the src folder contains modules for Metropolis-Hasting sampling, graph generation, and sampling diagonistics, which are imported and used in the main codes. To generate documentations of the helpers package, you need to install doxygen, and run
```
cd docs
doxygen
```

## Github Copilot
Copilot hasn't been shut down since it can enhance coding efficiency. However, it has been mostly used for generating documentations and codes for plots, the overall structure and many other functions were predominantly created by myself. Codes fully generated by AI tools are all pointed out in the comments.

## License
This project is licensed under the [MIT License] - see the [license] file for details.
## Author
Yichi Zhang (yz870)

26/03/2024